# Brick-Breaker
<br> This is a simpel game in Java. Brick breaker, you might know, is a game where a paddle bounces a ball towards bricks and when colliding removes it and gives a certain amount of points. This is not yet complete, work in progress!
<br>
Main file:<br>This file creates the window (as an instance), more can be added here later but for now it just a place to start from. **Only need to compile this file and run it to launch the game.**
<br>MyFrame: <br> This file handles the window creation, awt is primarily used and some of it's sublibrarys. All things regarding the windows is handled like rendering and events. Then the other logic classes, things that make the game playable (movment, collision, etc.) are then called here to then be renderd. Things like getHieght() is used to ensure that different sized windows dont mess with the logic.
<br>Ball:<br>This class creates a ball and keeps track of it's current position and velocity and size. 
<br>Bricks:<br> 
Here, the paddle that moves is created, along with the bricks that the ball can collide with. In this section, the collision with bricks is also handled. The simple idea is to check if the x position at the top of the ball is the same as a brick. Then, determine in which y range it is located and remove the corresponding brick. The creation is just start at a position move positvly in the x direction until it's the next brick is outside the screen and restart x position and move some y direction down the screen (here it's positive because the top left corener is point (0,0)). 
<br>Collision:<br> This handles the collision for the ball and the paddle, the reason brick collision is not done here is because all the bricks data and is located in the class and dont need to use that as arugments for the collision class. The focus here is then the paddle, it should stop at the edges of the screen. The ball needs it position updated if there is a collision, a change in the velcority in either or both directions by *(-1) and this is done both with the walls and paddle. It all comes down to checking the positions of everything constantly. 
